Karanbir Singh Chahal
7 May 2018


# Cover Letter
### Who I am. What makes me tick. Where I want to go.

Ever since the 2nd year of my college, I have been extremely passionate about deep learning. This interest was sparked by the Andrew NG ML course and I built on this  by interning at an AI startup, Parallel Dots. I worked on a cancer detection model there. Ever since that internship, I have tried to stay as up to date about the field as possible. I have a hobby of reading research papers and building cool deep learning pet projects. One of them was a UI builder where I could turn my drawings into UI in real time. I also tried to code a chatbot for  my girlfriend conditioned on our chats. It was quite a freaky experience for her, haha. As of now, I am writing a survey paper on object detection. This paper details the history of object detection in deep learning and the progress that has been made till date. It is really astounding that we have achieved human level accuracy at real time speeds. I enjoy taking part in competitions and am constantly working towards improving at my craft. I have won various hackathons and coding competitions around the country, the most recent being the NIPS Paper Implementation Challenge 2017.
 Apart from deep learning, I love thinking about scalability in computers. Over the course of my college years I have built a good foundation of algorithms and data structures. I have also done web development and have experience in building dev ops systems for my projects.
 I am currently working in the mobile team at HSBC. My team is responsible for building the foreign exchange app. I am also incharge of the ci-cd systems for the Android and iOS versions of the application. I was also responsible for architecting the git workflow procedure for our team.
 I love computers and want to work at your company as I have discovered that building things and getting work done in a big company is a really time consuming process with an over reliance on regulations and permissions. I crave for a startup atmosphere where I can work on the bare metal to code and create innovative things. With my diverse skillset coupled with my specialisation in deep learning, I think I will be a valuable addition to your team at ______ . I look forward to a positive response from you and would love to have a conversation about the systems you guys are building.
